# Leadership Council _Project Director Election Process_ Committee

## Goals

* Design the election process for the next set of rust foundation project directors (ratified by the leadership council)
* Clearly document and communicate the process and support itâ€™s execution
* Track, review, and document the effectiveness of the process

## Delegated Responsibilities

* None, this committee exists to create a proposal which will be consented to by the council

## Duration

* Temporary. This committee may be recreated each time we do a project director election in order to help support the process.

## Contact, Communication, and Workspace

- **Zulip Stream**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/394329-council.2Fproject-director-election-proposal
- **Meeting Minutes**: https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/BJANZIm_h

## Process

How does this committee work? Does it have meetings? Does it require consensus on all decisions? Does it present reports or recommendations to the Council? Is it required for decisions to be brought up to the Council?

* This committee tracks it's backlog within the meeting minutes hackmd document.
* This committee works via zulip and has video meetings on an as needed basis.
* This committee operates via consent, the proposal will be presented to the council once all committee members have fully reviewed the council and have no further feedback or objections.

## Members

* Ryan Levick ([rylev](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/blob/master/people/rylev.toml))
* Eric Holk ([eholk](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/blob/master/people/eholk.toml))
* Jane Losare-Lusby ([yaahc](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/blob/master/people/yaahc.toml))
