# 2023-06-15 

## Agenda

- (turn on recording)
- Introductions
- Figure out regular meeting cadence
- Determine and consent to initial priorities
    - Communication channel(s)
      - Zulip stream
      - public + private?
    - Mailing list?
    - Public issue tracker
- Discuss how we want to make progress between meetings
- Ryan: note on "formality" of this group
    - We have run into issues where we were unsure if decisions have been made and who actually consented to what. Being formal can help here (even if it sometimes feels unnecessary)
- Merge [governance RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3392)
- [Merge PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/1011) for adding council to rust-lang/team
- Discuss process for retiring leadership chat and core team
- Plan process for announcement blog post
- Enumerate time-sensitive items (this is just to ensure awareness - no action in the meeting needs to take place)
    - Project Directors the Foundation ((s-)elections set for July?)
    - Formally establish trademark working group
- What, if anything, to do with the recording of the meeting

## Minutes

- Unable to record due to technical difficulties, filing an action item to figure that out for the next meeting.
    - Designated note taker - Mark, Ryan facilitating
- Initial round of intros/checkins from each representative
- Figuring out meeting cadence
    - Ryan: Initial proposal of 1/week
    - Jonathan seconds
    - Jonathan: Maybe syncing with release cadence is worthwhile?
    - Mara: Let's time-limit the decision so we can reconsider rather than going in perpetuity.
    - Khio: Can we check in once a month?
    - Carol: Do we need video, or are text-based meetings sufficient?
    - Ryan: Decision - next 4 weeks, stick for video calls, asynchronously decide on time.
    - Follow ups:
        - Jack: What is our absent policy?
- Ryan: Let's come back to absent policy briefly. RFC provides for alternates.
    - Ryan: Proposal: 2 representatives allowed to miss (quorum N-2), otherwise canceled.
    - Ryan: Let's put an action item to double check with RFC.
    - Eric Huss: Decision making is N-2 but not otherwise specified.
    - No objections, agreed.
- Ryan: Determine & consent to initial priorities (first 1-2 weeks).
    - Ryan: Anything before the next meeting we need to decide other than items on the agenda?
    - Mara: First priority before anything else is a Zulip stream, already losing track of things.
        - Jack: We may want at least two streams - one of them being council write-only (but public read).
        - Eric Holk: A private channel also makes sense, though to be used rarely.
        - Mara: Write-only does not seem supported in Zulip.
        - Khio: We have three ideas for streams - public, public-read, private -- do we need three? public-read works poorly in my experience. Early steps - do we need a private stream initially? Most of the initial agenda is public OK. Can we start with just public channel?
        - Mara: I agree that public-read is solving a problem we don't yet have.
        - Ryan: Proposal is to create a private channel and a public channel, with the understanding that private should only be used if unavoidable.
        - Khio: Can we rename the RFC public one?
        - Mara, Jack: I think a new stream is best. Gives this group ownership.
        - Ryan: Sticking with proposal of new channels (public + private). Mara owns the action item.
        - Mara: For private channel, do we establish shared history or protected history? Any objection to sharing with future members? (Can be changed later).
        - Mara: Let's start with the shared history.
            - No objections to shared history for private channel.
    - Next priorities over next 1-1.5 weeks.
        - Ryan: Proposal: public issue tracker - discuss in public.
- How are we making decisions?
    - Jonathan: Let's avoid decisions in Zulip but rather bring to next meeting.
    - Jack: Let's assign 1-2 people owning coming back with the summary.
    - Mara: Decisions on Zulip may be better -- e.g., polls (who voted for what) seem better. Every decision being a topic on Zulip may be a better default.
    - Ryan: +1 to Mara's point. Might also suggest long/mid-term we write out the rationale/caveats, similar to judicial opinions.
    - Eric Holk: I think we will want asynchronous and synchronous decision making. Written down gives you a clear record of assent.
    - Eric Huss: Reluctant to use Zulip for decision record (e.g., GitHub seems better in terms of public record).
- Ryan: Circling back, can we agree on discussing async and pulling that together into the next meeting's agenda?
    - Mara: Can we make sure that decisions and such don't happen before the next meeting - don't want things to happen when not watching every thread.
- Ryan: Formality. Can we start with being relatively too formal to ensure we're getting the right level of consent.
    - Mara: Let's not regress on this accidentally, only intentionally. Need to make sure we don't become sloppy on this.
    - Jonathan: Practicing formality makes it routine.
    - Ryan: One starter is 100% consent for all decisions. We need some time to discover what the process is.
    - Jack: With N-2 absence policy, are we okay with moving ahead? These seem in tension with each other.
    - Ryan: RFC requires N-2 for decisions, but rather increase to 100%. I think we should make decisions with 9/9 consent to it.
    - Mara: +1, and should also tend toward not making decisions in meeting, which gives you asynchronous voting. Let's actively decide on changes in the future.
    - Jack: If people are absent, then we can't make decisions, but I do like async decisions.
    - Khio: Minimum of 10 days of feedback is specified in the RFC on decisions. (Seems like all decisions).
    - Eric Holk: Concerned with us deviating from RFC, though in favor of going above myself.
    - Time check: Noting that there's ~6 minutes left.
    - Mara: What counts as decision? RFC requires +10 day.
- Eric Huss: Three things expected today - merge RFC, merge team update, post blog post.
    - Ryan: Any objections to team repo and RFC merges?
        - Jack: Let's defer Zulip group to later.
    - Ryan will own team repo merge.
    - Mark will own RFC repo merge.
    - Ryan: Blog post posting - let's move this to an async discussion?
        - Jack: What is the mechanism for approving that?
        - Mara: /poll on Zulip is preferred. Do we invalidate votes on small edits?
        - Ryan: Conservatively agreed to invalidate votes, but OK with async approval.

### Action items

- Ryan: Figure out video recording meetings
- Ryan: Send out async time coordination for meetings in the next 4 weeks.
- Jack: What is our absent policy?
- Ryan: check RFC for absence policy and alternates
    - RFC does not have an absence policy, N-2 is there for *decisions*
- Ryan will own team repo merge.
- Mark will own RFC repo merge.

### Consented Decisions

- Meetings will be once a week for the time being
    - Review once a month
- Stream creation: one private, with history shared with new members, and one public
