# 2023-06-28

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
- Note on scribe procedure (*Ryan*, **Time**: 3 Minutes)
    - **Previous discussion**: [W3C procedure](https://gist.github.com/Manishearth/1b3d0b5a8741a38e10794dcb45d0574c)
- Update on Project Director Election group (*Eric Holk*, **Time**: 5 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform council on progress and plans for Project Director Election process
- Documentation team (*Ryan*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide to establish documentation team in charge of ensuring that Council output (meetings, decisions, pending work items, etc.) are documented properly.
    * **Proposal**: Establish Council documentation subteam with Ryan and Eric Huss whose first agenda item will be to create a charter for the subteam to be approved by the Council.
    * **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Documentation.20sub-team)
- Where and how to track items (*Ryan*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Explore and decide at least an initial place to track items the Council is discussing, has delegated, etc. 
    - **Proposal**: Delegate this to the newly formed documentation subteam.
    - **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/How.20and.20where.20to.20track.20items)
- How to handle time sensitive decisions (*Mara*, Time: 15 minutes)
    - **Goal:** Explore?
    - **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/How.20to.20handle.20time.20sensitive.20decisions)
- Call for clarifications
- Check-ou

## Minutes

Attendance: all

- Recording
    - Best effort failed due to technical difficulties
- Consent to agenda
    - Mara: brief discussion around Mara's topic, agreement to keep it for now.
    - No objections raised to proposal.
- Note on scribe procedure (*Ryan*, **Time**: 3 Minutes)
    - **Previous discussion**: [W3C procedure](https://gist.github.com/Manishearth/1b3d0b5a8741a38e10794dcb45d0574c)
- Update on Project Director Election group (*Eric Holk*, **Time**: 5 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Inform council on progress and plans for Project Director Election process
    - Eric Holk: Deadline is actually in September, group has met a couple of times
    - Eric Holk: Brief update - we have started to get going here, couple meetings, etc.
        - Eric Holk: Goal is a proposal to share by mid-July. Project director terms have been extended to September 21st, so not quite as urgent; no extension needed.
        - Eric Holk: Hoping to put out a blog post on inside rust with a proposal.
        - Eric Holk: Current thinking is for each team to do a round of nominations and then council to discuss and select which ones are put forward. Formally that final selection will be a vote, but mostly pro-forma.
        - Eric Holk: Planning to create a repository with the details of what happens and suggestions for future tweaks.
    - No questions raised.
- Documentation team (*Ryan*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Decide to establish documentation team in charge of ensuring that Council output (meetings, decisions, pending work items, etc.) are documented properly.
    * **Proposal**: Establish Council documentation subteam with Ryan and Eric Huss whose first agenda item will be to create a charter for the subteam to be approved by the Council.
    * **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Documentation.20sub-team)
    - Ryan: Idea is to create a longer-lasting subteam/committee focused on council outputs landing as needed (publicly). Goal is to grant them authority to make reversible decisions on documenting (e.g. where to put docs). Can be mutated over time too. No decisions on council level but just how we document them.
    - Mara: Let's make sure to avoid confusing name (given past documentation team with different focus).
        - Mara: Worried about people assignment to individual subteams/groups -- how do we avoid overload or underload? Let's be a little intentional.
        - Jack: Let's make sure we at least document.
        - Jonathan: A rolling list/program at each meeting having a list of tasks and people and colored status.
        - Ryan: I think this one is needed so we don't lose track of things we are doing already. But, maybe we can talk in Zulip about the important/bigger things we need soon and figure out how to allocate ourselves across them.
    - Ryan: We are in favor of creating in general, and about the idea around this team specifically, but concern around ad-hoc process for creation. Any objections to this one ad-hoc creation?
        - Mara: So long as it is not called "documentation team". "Librarians" was suggested offhand by someone.
        - Ryan: Decision made to form it.
    - Ryan: Objections to starting a conversation on Zulip for more holistic view of the council's responsibilities and allocating work appropriately.
        - No objections.
        - Ryan: Breaking up roles within the council itself (e.g. chairs/secretary/etc) may also make sense.
- Where and how to track items (*Ryan*, **Time**: 10 Minutes)
    - **Goal**: Explore and decide at least an initial place to track items the Council is discussing, has delegated, etc. 
    - **Proposal**: Delegate this to the newly formed librarians subteam.
    - **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/How.20and.20where.20to.20track.20items)
    - Ryan: The librarians team just approved may help/solve this in the short-term. Envisioning status reporting on issues both brought to the council and way of adding to that list. Proposal is to delegate the decision on how to frame this to the librarians team.
    - Eric Huss: What is the output? Are agendas separate or part of this?
        - Ryan: Starting initially with separate may make sense. Can build agendas "automatically" too.
    - Eric Holk: Like the idea of delegating. GitHub issues feels like a great mechanism.
        - Ryan: that sounds good. librarians team will make that decision.
    - Jonathan: Let's try to avoid infinite issue backlogs for the council, maybe a snapshot of some kind would be useful.
        - Eric Huss: Github's projects feels like a good starting point.
        - Mara: 2021 Edition was tracked in github projects, seemed to work ok.
    - Ryan: Decision to delegate how we track items to the librarians team?
        - No objections, decided.
- How to handle time sensitive decisions (*Mara*, Time: 15 minutes)
    - **Goal:** Explore?
    - **Previous discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/How.20to.20handle.20time.20sensitive.20decisions)
    - Mara: No goal to have decision yet, want input on people's perspectives before we start proposal. Only tool we have used so far is delegation: X people do this, but we were very hesitant around delegating public communications. What is the right way to handle these things? Relevant for both time sensitive and not. Avoiding "full trust", which doesn't scale.
    - Khio: A smaller group *drafting* rather than *posting* is one idea for avoiding needing to delegate too much trust, while avoiding the cook count.
        - Ryan: +1, and might make sense to delegate to a crisis team or so. Personally would like to delegate to a small group in crisis situations, particularly for those on vacation.
    - Jack: Something time-sensitive like a media outlet reaching out is pre-plannable for who will do it. Other things we would not have talked about ahead of time. Good to collect all the information back into the council so we can talk about it as a wider group at a later point. Someone would maybe be responsible for short "yes we're aware" style responses, but not delegating more.
    - Eric Huss: Can we define categories of things are time sensitive?
    - Eric Holk: +1 - categories seem OK. Maybe some kind of on-call rotation (X hour response time, follow-the-sun).
    - Eric Holk: For social media, media outlets -- still a community team under launching pad. Can we revive that team?
    - Mara: Time sensitive issue previously involved with: Rust 1.59 release happened on same day as the invasion of Ukraine, discussion around release blog/note inclusion. Speaking on behalf of the project and speaking on behalf of the project (this was in leadership chat). 5ish people were involved then. One thing we did not do is talk about it afterwards; no reflection on the decision. Most important thing is to review decisions (tiny or not) with the broader group. Need incremental way to grow trust and tune delegation. Even short review creates space for fine tuning without large deltas.
    - Jonathan: Trust is earned, and meetings like this help with that. Synchronous meeting with video helps augment that. Delegated powers being time-limited could help provide intentional checks and deltas.
    - Ryan: Representing organizations vs. taking personal opinions is a skill, seems like there are resources that could help us (not sure exactly what those are yet).
    - Khio: Community team potentially handling communication - pushing back on that; the community team was not intended as the only integration point with wider community. May not want to merge scopes of happy events with dealing with crises.
    - Eric Holk: Yeah, not a decision to be taken lightly. May not be possible to delegate the trust.
    - Eric Holk: Review & feedback process is a good way to iterate on representing the org. +1 for that.
    - Mara: Growing not just trust but skills, learning is another key point. No light feedback channels to adjust in small ways, which prevents adjusting course early. Without those feedback channels both delegating to others but also executing ourselves is tricky: can't trust them without feedback, but also don't know whether we're representing well.
    - Mara: Who is interested in public comms?
        - Jack, Khio - happy to help here.
    - Khio: Shall we form a subgroup?
    - Ryan: Do we want to hold off on forming a subgroup until we have holistic review?
        - Eric Holk: Mild feeling to hold off, wasn't on agenda, etc.
        - Jack: Groups have not been long-lasting so far (maybe modulo librarian), so seems OK
        - Mara: Creating a proposal doc does not merit a formal group. Talking in the open about it without formalizing is good.
        - Ryan: Scope here feels fuzzier and agree what others have said - no need just yet.
    - Ryan: Not creating the group just yet.
    - Mara: We talked about time sensitive comms. But also interested in non-time sensitive comms. I'm also interested in non-time sensitive comms being part of the same group.
        - Some thumbs up to combining those scopes.
- Call for clarifications for meeting discussion
    - No topics.