# 2023-07-06

## Agenda

- Check-in
- Assign roles
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
- Approval of [Rust specification RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3355) (*Mara*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Specification.20RFC.20Approval)
    - **Goal**: Align on what aspects of the RFC the Council is approving.
- Allowing meeting observers (*Ryan*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Observing.20meetings.3F)
    * **Goal**: Come to consensus on stance on allowing meeting observers
- Discussion of high-level work items that possibly require their own subcommittees (*Ryan*, 30 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/High-level.20work.20items.2Fpossible.20subcommittees)
    - **Goal**: Come to consensus on whether the list seems complete and correct. Decide on which subcommittees should be created first.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
- Check-out

## Minutes

Attendance: all

- Assign roles
    - Facilitator: Ryan
    - Scribe: Mark
- Turn on recording
- Consent to agenda
    - No objections.
- Approval of [Rust specification RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3355) (*Mara*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Specification.20RFC.20Approval)
    - **Goal**: Align on what aspects of the RFC the Council is approving.
    - Mara: From the beginning was unclear on who exactly would approve. Mostly language team (new version of reference), but involves Foundation funding etc. too. Funding committed from a couple of companies to fund, but want approval from project to fully kick off hiring.
    - Mara: FCP from lang team in progress, but they don't want to sign off on Foundation hiring people. Council escalation to figure out that aspect.
    - Ryan: Should Rust have a specification? Feels 95% language, but there's a ~5% "right direction overall" -- which feels like it ought to be on behalf of the project. Feels like a yes too, but maybe merits discussion.
    - Jonathan: Working for company that wrote Ferrocene, so in favor, but want to raise: what are the future touchpoints / interactions here, with lang, council, etc.?
    - Mara: Two meetings so far with Niko, JoshT, Joel Marcey, Eric Huss, Pietro, Florian, Sage, Mara. Lang team is planning to form subteam who will work closely with Foundation hired editor who is coordinating but not deciding. All of this is planning to happen in the open.
    - Ryan: Suggestion - we write into the RFC that this effort will create a proposal for a Rust specification, and then the council will approve it becoming *the* specification at a future point.
        - Khio: RFC is a proposal to work on it, are you suggesting a second round of consent once it is done?
        - Ryan: yes.
    - Eric Holk: Willing to delegate more. Not sure that the full doc is really something that the full council needs to read. Council maybe confirms with teams they're happy, but want someting lightweight.
    - Mara: RFC text currently makes teams retain authority on what Rust is. I agree with Eric that the teams (lang, libs, etc.) need to own the what, whereas Council owns the "The" Rust spec aspect.
    - Ryan: I think we're in agreement? But maybe a disconnect in semantics. Let's follow up async.
    - Mara: This RFC is where we decide we want a spec, so if there's concerns, we should talk about it soon. This is blocking work in the Foundation, so make sure this happens quickly.
- Allowing meeting observers (*Ryan*, 10 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/Observing.20meetings.3F)
    * **Goal**: Come to consensus on stance on allowing meeting observers
    - Ryan: Seems like a natural desire. Feel iffy about global anonymous audience of anyone, but open to folks observing the meeting.
    - Ryan: Any categorical opposition to inviting *any* other people?
        - No.
    - Ryan: Anyone feel comfortable from broader internet can join/watch?
        - Eric Holk: Depends on how we advertise it. #council link feels OK; advertising widely, seems like no.
        - Mara: People will absolutely find any link if they have enough motivation.
    - Carol: Suggestion: only people on teams can observe, but no broader group?
        - Some noises in favor.
        - Jonathan: A little more open -- allowing people to apply to attend, but reserve right to say no. But, still allow observation from broader community. Let most teams attend.
        - Ryan: Higher order bit - only delta is watching. I also want to know why + who is here - single sentence explanation.
        - Eric Holk: Open meetings allow modeling disagreement resolution etc. to the rest of the project. Maybe worth keeping in mind.
    - Jack: If people can apply -- who makes decision on joining? If sensitive things are discussed -- how do we adjust public configuration?
    - Ryan: I think we are broadly comfortable with folks joining, but need to figure out details of the process and exact group of folks who can join.
    - Khio and Jack will put together a concrete proposal on this for the council to approve.
- Discussion of high-level work items that possibly require their own subcommittees (*Ryan*, 30 Minutes)
    - **Previous Discussion**: [[Zulip]](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/392734-council/topic/High-level.20work.20items.2Fpossible.20subcommittees), [[HackMD]](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/r1zXXfeth)
    - **Goal**: Come to consensus on whether the list seems complete and correct. Decide on which subcommittees should be created first.
    - Ryan: Interested in 2-3 committees which feel urgent and perhaps should be started 'soon'.
    - Eric Huss: One question is whether these are committees of council members or broader group of potential members?
    - Ryan: Intention was for that to be based on the committee itself. Potentially get to the point where many non-council members in committees.
    - Eric Holk: Not sure if these are permanent under council committees, vs. subgroups under other existing teams.
    - Jonathan: A little fuzzy on the differences between teams, working groups, and committees of council.
        - Ryan: I view teams as permanent groups; working groups as specialized areas; committees are a new thing that has less prior art in the project for people to intuit meanings for. Goal is to break council up into smaller groups as an initial work structure. It may be the case that these spin out into separate teams or working groups in the future.
        - Eric Holk: Teams usually have decision making authority while working groups typically do not have decision making authority on a domain.
    - Ryan: This is mutable over time. Doesn't necessarily mean we need to create these as commitees.
    - Jonathan: Point of a leadership council committee is to do a piece of work that the council needs to do, but best to do in smaller groups.
    - Mark: One of the goals of governance RFC is to have everyone in the Rust org linked in with the Council. As we create teams/committees, make sure they are linked in somewhere. Maybe using Launching Pad for this?
        - Ryan: Sounds good. Let's make sure that we keep a council member (or more) in these committees for now at least.
    - Mara: Just calling out the group of 1 with me - twitter retweeting.
    - Ryan: Council outward communication ("Communications") group might be a good starting point for us to kick things off on.
        - Khio: I think Mara, Jack, and Khio were going to propose something in this space?
        - Jack: Is this Council <> Project or Council <> world?
        - Ryan: Thinking is that difference is communicating on behalf of the council, but not on behalf of the project.
    - Mark: What is our goal with this discussion?
        - Ryan: Touch base on a few committees and figure out which ones are the right ones to start with?
        - Mara: Complete-ish list and identify gaps -- feels like the right place to start.
    - Mara: One gap I see: Communication from the *Project* rather than from the *Council*? This probably ought to be a team.
    - Mara: One other gap: Moderation & contingent moderator team. 2nd of those is an urgent gap.
        - Khio: Would like to talk with JoshG before putting this on council.
        - Khio: Contingent moderators are intended as a subteam of mod team. Some candidates but have not yet pulled together proposing that list.
    - Ryan: Worried that we have lots of ideas that aren't driving us to something productive -- what is the outcome?
        - Eric Holk: Holistic document. Outlines structures (team/wg/committee), then items to work on, then entities to address them. Do that offline.
        - Ryan: Engineering the full list feels like the hard part. Previous meeting raised the lack of this list, but feels like we can't write a complete document (too hard).
        - Ryan: I would find it helpful to ideate on areas of concern and, knowing that there will be gaps, start picking away at that. Project director elections picked out of nebulous cloud into a group.
        - Jonathan: Useful to see concrete list of what that committee does. Exact purpose/outcomes (e.g., "Give a report on X cadence").
        - Ryan: Before we get to that - we need a list of nebulous groups before crystallizing them into specific outcomes.
        - Mara: Rather than list of committees, a list of responsibilities that we have as a conucil, and then go to divvy those up into smaller groups.
        - Eric Holk: Like that idea. Each of us putting together top X priorities might be a good input into the prioritization process.
    - Ryan: Proposal: (1) Brainstorm list of everything we need to worry about. Not exhaustive, but get long list out of this. (2) Pull top three from that are 3 urgent areas that we want to tackle first.
        - Jonathan: Like that, but want to suggest some kind of grouping as 1.5 step. Before pulling top three.
        - No objections to this rough direction.
- Mara: Announcements section for future agendas, no discussion.
    - Announcement: Twitter access is currently missing for me, working with infra on a fix.
- Call for clarifications
- Turn off recording
